TITLE: Birth Story of Shri Krishna - Divine Incarnation
DESCRIPTION:Lord Krishna's Birth LeelaContext of Lord Krishna's AvatarAccording to the flow of time, the end of the Dwapar Yuga was approaching. At that time, the quality of sattva began to diminish among the people, and the influence of rajas and tamas became evident. Demons like Kansa, Rajasandh, Paundraka Vasudeva, and Kalayavan, as well as people with asuric nature, had become the rulers and began to govern many kingdoms. These evil kings gathered many soldiers and began to exploit the subjects with their wicked tendencies. It seemed as if the reign of adharma was evident on Earth. Such an increase in sin had occurred on Earth that it began to moan under the weight. To liberate herself from the sinful kings, Mother Earth took the form of a cow and went to the deities. She was trembling with pain, and with tears flowing from her eyes, she began to share her sorrow with the deities, saying, "I cannot bear this burden of demons and sins. They have no knowledge of their true nature, dharma, or self-dharma. They are intoxicated with arrogance and are trapped only in immorality. The general public has also become sinful by imitating these immoral and dharmic beings." The deities were unable to find any remedy for Earth's suffering, so they all went to Brahma and Shiva.Seeing the dreadful suffering of Mother Earth, Brahmadev, who was enraged, took everyone along and went to his worshipped Lord Vishnu, who was in the Ksheerasagara (ocean of milk), and began to praise Him. While praising, he became absorbed in meditation and in that meditative state, he heard and conveyed to the deities and to Earth that 'The Supreme God is aware of the struggles of Earth. The Lord Vishnu, who is the Supreme of all deities, has informed his devotee Shri Krishna that He will soon descend to the Earth to alleviate all suffering, destroy the demons, and those who do not believe in the devotion and power of the Supreme God. He will incarnate immediately during the time of war, and all the deities will be born in the time of war and participate in His divine play. Lord Shri Krishna and his beloved Shrimati Radharani will be born in Braj to serve Him. Now, all of you return to your places.' Hearing this, Mother Earth and the other deities joyfully returned to their respective places, realizing that the end of their suffering was near.
MORAL: This story teaches us that whenever dharma declines and evil increases, the Supreme Lord incarnates to restore righteousness and protect devotees. It shows the divine compassion and the cyclical nature of divine intervention.
SHLOKA: यदा यदा हि धर्मस्य ग्लानिर्भवति भारत। अभ्युत्थानमधर्मस्य तदात्मानं सृजाम्यहम्।। परित्राणाय साधूनां विनाशाय च दुष्कृताम्। धर्मसंस्थापनार्थाय संभवामि युगे युगे।।
SHLOKA_TRANSLATION: Whenever dharma declines and unrighteousness prevails, O Bharata, I manifest myself. For the protection of the good, destruction of the wicked, and establishment of dharma, I appear age after age.
TAGS: Krishna birth, avatar, dharma, Dvapara Yuga, divine incarnation, Kamsa, Vishnu, Bhagavad Gita
CATEGORY: childhood
DIFFICULTY: medium
READING_TIME: 8

---

TITLE: Second Lila - Template
DESCRIPTION: Add description for second lila here.
STORY: Add the complete story for second lila here.
MORAL: Add teaching here.
TAGS: sample, template
CATEGORY: childhood
DIFFICULTY: easy

